Comprehensive Rust v2 (#1073)
google/comprehensive-rust: src/references/shared.md

- basic-syntax/references.md
- basic-syntax/references-dangling.md
---

# Shared References

Rust's references provide a way to refer to another value, similar to pointers
or C++'s references.

<!-- mdbook-xgettext: skip -->
```rust,editable
fn main() {
    let a = 'A';
    let b = 'B';
    let mut r: &char = &a;
    println!("r: {}", *r);
    r = &b;
    println!("r: {}", *r);
}
```

A reference to a type `T` has type `&T`. A reference value is made with the `&`
operator. The `*` operator "dereferences" a reference, yielding its value.

Rust will statically forbid dangling references:

<!-- mdbook-xgettext: skip -->
```rust,editable,compile_fail
fn x_axis(x: i32) -> &(i32, i32) {
    let point = (x, 0);
    return &point;
}
```

<details>

* A reference is said to "borrow" the value it refers to.

* References are implemented as pointers, and a key advantage is that they can
  be much smaller than the thing they point to.

* Rust does not automatically create references for you - the `&` is always
  required.

* Rust will auto-dereference in some cases, in particular when invoking
  methods (try `r.count_ones()`). There is no need for an `->` operator
  like in C++.

> * In this example, `r` is mutable so that it can be reassigned (`r = &b`).

Reviewer: Minor suggestion (please ignore if it's not what you're looking for): might be useful to mention that this re-binds the reference (`r` becomes a pointer to something else), in contrast to C++ where an assignment to a reference changes the value of the pointee.

> * A shared reference does not allow modifying the valueit refers to, even if

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* A shared reference does not allow modifying the value it refers to, even if
```
